---
layout: post
title: "QCon London - Day 3"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: Keep calm and Built It Yourself!
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2015-03-10T15:39:55-04:00
comments: true
---

Final day for QCon in London this year. Day 3 tracks from QCon were:

* Architectures You've Always Wondered About
* Open source in finance
* Product Mastery
* Taming Microservices
* Taming Mobile
* Low Latency Trading

No sponsor tracks today.

### Day 3 - Keynote

The keynote on the final day was delivered by Roy Rapoport, a manager in the Insight Engineering team at Netflex. The talk was titled, **Netflix Built its own Monitoring System - and why you probably shouldn't.**

The talk wasn’t really about telemetry but was about the _Not Invented Here Syndrome_ which we’re frequently faced with in all the time.

Roy has been working in technology for over 23 years and has been at Netflix for the last 5 years, his career at Netflix started of Systems Engineering (no idea what that means), a service delivery team in Netflix. Basically - he troubleshooted and built stuff in python. He’s currently the manager of Insight Team which looks after business analytics. Netflix works based on recommendations to it’s users, there are very few people that rate videos or leave reviews and as a result they are reliant to mining user behaviours, interpreting these in order to suggest new TV shows or movies to watch.

Unlike the previous 2 days talks, I can’t find the same talk delivered by Roy at previous conferences. however on InfoQ you can see videos of other talks which look to be equally interesting <http://www.infoq.com/author/Roy-Rapoport>.

Some of the points that were delivered in Roy’s talk:

* Netflix
    * There are 57.4+ million subscribers on Netflix (this number was from Jan 15)
    * Some of the key tenants at Netflix that Roy described:
	* Freedom and Transparency
	* Optimise speed of innovation
	* Constrain availability
	* Cost is what it is
	* **Hire Smart people… Then get out of their way**
	* Anti-process bias
	    * No prescriptive process - they work on the basis of natural selection
* Roy talked about how lucky most of us are in the technology industry, every day we get have the opportunity to create something that someone else we use.
* Every day we walk in - we solve problems, if we didn’t it would be a pretty boring job
    * The question he asked was... are we the first to have this problem? 
	* The example he used was when Netflix decided it would run everything on AWS - they were the first large company to run everything on Amazon’s cloud and this brought with a whole bunch new challanges that hadn not been experienced by others
	* If not the first, maybe we are the first to care about this problem.
	* If you are answer is yes to both of these then you probably need to build your own solutions...
    * Otherwise - Good News - someone else has probably solved this!
	* But...
	    * We still done use these solutions because of the NIH (Not Invented Here) syndrom and maybe because...
	    * As developers, we don’t trust the solution that is there - he used examples were a vendor promises the world and the product can do everything you ask but in reality it does some of it, and possibly badly!
	    * Sometime the product does what you want but does a ton of other stuff that you don’t need… huh… why would we ever need that. Roy, pointed out sometimes all that other stuff you think you don’t need is there for a reason and maybe you need to find out out a little more about the experiences of people that have built this
	    * Sometimes - the people telling you to use other products are not developers; managers and other senior IT folk push solutions from the top down without really understanding what is needed by the team. This generates resentment to the solution being proposed.
	    * Quite fairly - sometimes we are worried about the ongoing support for a third-party product whether it is a vendor or OSS product.
    * In the end we often say
	* **KEEP CALM AND BUILD IT YOURSELF**
* Roy pointed out that building your own software is needed, sometimes it won’t be there but that’s not a reason to stagnate and do nothing.
* “Eventual Consistency"
    * A lot of people worry about to many of the same things being built if there isn’t an overarching governance process. 
    * Roy said that Netflix use a Fork n’ Merge approach which the model for OSS
    * This work well for incremental changes and eventually there comes a point of consistency 
    * He used the example of CD automation tooling and how this is evolved at Netflix.
* A few of us have recently been looking at monitoring solutions recently and the one from Netflix has recently been open sourced and put onto Github. Roy used this as an example to illustrate his points.
    * He surmised on Atlas at the end:
    * No products existed at the time that could do with the scale of Netflex
    * They had over 2m metrics they wanted to capture each minute
    * There were no OSS products available not the market either
    * They submitted lots of patches to the Java RRD project and worked with them to incrementally make Java RRD better
    * The project took longer than expected
    * There is an ongoing maintenance cost for Atlas
    * The UI for Atlas has only become a priority - it’s actually an essential part of telemetry
    * Atlas scales - efficiently-ish
    * Atlas is expensive to run - i.e their AWS costs
    * Atlas works really well for Netflix - it is very developer oriented and as a result it makes it very easy to add metrics and use the analytics
    * It is nicely pluggable - the backing store for example can have multiple implementations
    * The aggressively open sourcing Atlas now
    * It was the right choice for Netflix - but… most probably should do this
* Sunk Cost Fallacy - shouldn’t worry this - if you need to replace, you need to replace.

The slides from the talk are available here: <http://qconlondon.com/system/files/keynotes-slides/20150306%20QCon%20London%20NIH.pdf>

On the final day of QCon I attended the following talks, links to slides provided where i have them:

* Microservices: software that fits in your head by Dan North - <https://speakerdeck.com/tastapod/microservices-software-that-fits-in-your-head>>
* Microservices are too (conceptually) big by Philip Wills - no slides but I will post notes if I get round to it
* Product thru the Looking Glass by Chris Matts - no slides and I’m not going to post anything for this session. it wasn’t my cup of tea!
* Service Architectures at Scale: Lessons from Google and eBay by Randy Shoup - <http://qconlondon.com/system/files/presentation-slides/QConLondon2015-ServiceArchitecturesAtScale.pdf>
* Building a Modern Microservices Architecture at Gilt: The Essentials by Yoni Goldberg - no slides again - will try and post some notes
* Aeron: The next generation in high-performance messaging by Martin Thompson - no slides, I will post some notes.
